TCP Client Doc (#2561)
pomerium/pomerium: docs/docs/client.md

---
title: Pomerium TCP Clients
description: Learn how to create secured TCP connections to services behind Pomerium.
---

# Pomerium Desktop and CLI Clients

Pomerium is capable of creating secure connections to services like SSH, Redis, and more by creating a TCP tunnel to the service with a local client. This article describes configuring a route to accept TCP connections, and using either the CLI or GUI client to connect to it.

## Create a TCP Route

> 1. Specify it as a TCP Route by prefixing `tcp+` in the **From** field, along with a port suffix.

Reviewer: > Specify it as

What is `it` in this sentence?

Author: ```suggestion
1. Specify this new Route as a TCP Route by prefixing `tcp+` in the **From** field, along with a port suffix.
```

   ::: tip

>    The port is not used in the connection to the Pomerium gateway; this will always be port 443. Rather, the port defined in **From** is part of the mapping to the individual route. In this way, you can create multiple routes that share a DNS entry, differentiated by the port to determine which route they use.

Reviewer: > the Pomerium gateway

Can we define what the gateway is in this context?

Author: ```suggestion
   The port is not used to connect to the Pomerium proxy service from the internet; this will always be port 443 (unless otherwise defined in `config.yaml`). Rather, the port defined in **From** is part of the mapping to the individual route. In this way, you can create multiple routes that share a DNS entry, differentiated by the port to determine which route they use.
```

Reviewer: SGTM

Reviewer: SGTM

   ::: tip
   The port is not used to connect to the Pomerium proxy service from the internet; this will always be port 443 (unless otherwise defined in `config.yaml`). Rather, the port defined in **From** is part of the mapping to the individual route. In this way, you can create multiple routes that share a DNS entry, differentiated by the port to determine which route they use.
   :::

1. The **To** field uses `tcp://` as a protocol, and specifies the address and port the service listens on.

The example below demonstrates a route to the SSH service on the host running the Pomerium Core or Pomerium Enterprise service:

::::: tabs
:::: tab Pomerium Core

```yaml
  - from: tcp+https://ssh.localhost.pomerium.io:22
    to: tcp://127.0.0.1:22
    policy:
    - allow:
        or:
          - email:
              is: user@companydomain.com
```
::::
:::: tab Pomerium Enterprise
![Example TCP route for SSH](./img/tcp-ssh-route.png)

::::
:::::

## TCP Client Software

You can connect to this route with either the Pomerium CLI or Pomerium Desktop cient.

::::: tabs

:::: tab Pomerium Desktop
### Install

> TBD

Author: CC @travisgroth for details on Client release methods.

---
title: Pomerium TCP Clients
description: Learn how to create secured TCP connections to services behind Pomerium.
---

# Pomerium Desktop and CLI Clients

Pomerium is capable of creating secure connections to services like SSH, Redis, and more by creating a TCP tunnel to the service with a local client. This article describes configuring a route to accept TCP connections, and using either the CLI or GUI client to connect to it.

## Create a TCP Route

1. Specify this new Route as a TCP Route by prefixing `tcp+` in the **From** field, along with a port suffix.

   ::: tip

>    The port is not used to connect to the Pomerium proxy service from the internet; this will always be port 443 (unless otherwise defined in `config.yaml`). Rather, the port defined in **From** is part of the mapping to the individual route. In this way, you can create multiple routes that share a DNS entry, differentiated by the port to determine which route they use.

Reviewer 2: Might be long winded for a `tip` section but should an example be included for clarity?  My go-to is always accessing SSH and PSQL on the same host without requiring different DNS entires.

Author: We can do that, and we'll just make it part of the step and not a tip.

Author: How does 08cc640be32739917861f2b7cfd87f8001201ad3 grab ya?

Reviewer 2: 👍
